Progress report - December 2022 (#341)
yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io: site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-dec-2022/index.md

He fixed the bug by making sure we now allocate the memory before using it.
This is meant to alleviate the situation while other parts of the kernel are being ironed out.

This is more related to error handling, but counts nonetheless.
byte[] added an option to {{< gh-hovercard "9370" "force the emulator to break when an invalid memory access happens." >}}
This means that if/when a game explodes in the background, the emulator will crash instead of slowly eating all the available system RAM.
Problems like these can be caused by emulation issues, damaged game dumps, or even some wonky mods, so it’s always a better option to avoid  crashing the entire emulator, and if the user has little enough RAM, making the OS suffer.

Along with endless silent changes that don’t get mentioned here, [lioncash](https://github.com/lioncash) made some changes to the input code to {{< gh-hovercard "9389" "reduce memory use ever so slightly." >}}

## User interface and audio changes

> There are interesting quality of life changes implemented for the user interface
> lioncash also made the {{< gh-hovercard "9394" "SPIR-V shader backend element translatable," >}} so it doesn’t always show in English for everyone.
> The community effort working on translation can now take the label and update it accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've had some interesting user interface quality of life changes implemented!
lioncash made the {{< gh-hovercard "9394" "SPIR-V shader backend element translatable," >}} so it doesn’t always show in English for everyone.
The community effort working on translation can now take the label and update it accordingly.
```

{{< imgs
	"./spirv.png| We still don’t recommend using it over GLSL, but Mesa users report they enjoy it"
  >}}

> Some months ago, with the core timing changes, we allowed users to boot games with their framerate unlocked, after continuous requests by the community.
> As it turns out, nothing changed, several games hate booting with unlocked framerates, and the support channels get their fair share of people asking why their game doesn’t want to boot.
> So, simple fix, {{< gh-hovercard "9425" "unlocked framerate at boot rights denied." >}}
> The hotkey is Ctrl + U by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some months ago, with the core timing changes, we allowed users to boot games with their framerate unlocked after continuous requests from the community.
As it turns out, nothing changed. Several games hate booting with unlocked framerates, and the support channels get their fair share of people asking why their game doesn’t want to boot.
So, simple fix, {{< gh-hovercard "9425" "unlocked framerate at boot rights denied." >}}
The hotkey to toggle unlocked framerate is `Ctrl + U` by default, only a small nuisance.
```

Users reported that they couldn’t record or stream their yuzu window while in windowed mode.
byte[] found the cause was setting the `WA_DontCreateNativeAncestors` Qt property for all platforms, instead of just for wayland.

> {{< gh-hovercard "9461" "Issue down, streamers rejoyce." >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< gh-hovercard "9461" "Issue down, streamers rejoice." >}}
```

> Discord user piplup (with a very cute profile picture, I have to add) reported that yuzu didn’t save the device name (what you would call the console) after accessing a game’s custom configuration window.
> german77 {{< gh-hovercard "9466" "fixed the issue" >}} (this particular setting lacked a custom configuration equivalent), and also fixed Qt 6 build issues while at it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Discord user piplup reported that yuzu didn’t save the device name (what you would call the console) after accessing a game’s custom configuration window.
german77 {{< gh-hovercard "9466" "fixed the issue" >}} (this particular setting lacked a custom configuration equivalent), and also fixed Qt 6 build issues while at it.
```

Another very nice quality of life improvement made by german77 is making yuzu {{< gh-hovercard "9467" "remember the last selected directory" >}} for `Install files to NAND…`.
If you keep your dumps in the same folder, updating your games is going to take fewer clicks now.

byte[] managed an amazing victory in the war against crashes when closing/stopping games. He worked on {{< gh-hovercard "9476" "making shutdown not visibly freeze yuzu," >}} avoiding crashing the emulator while the game quits, and showing a nice pop-up message while at it too!

{{< imgs
	"./shutdown.png| We take longer than the Switch, but some games really love to take their time on console"
  >}}

> [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) helped make this possible by {{< gh-hovercard "9477" "hiding button dialog boxes," >}} allowing to create the dialog overlay byte[] added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) helped make this possible by {{< gh-hovercard "9477" "hiding button dialog boxes," >}} allowing for the creation of the dialog overlay byte[] added.
```

> Another battle fought in this front is related to homebrew apps. byte[] is responsible for {{< gh-hovercard "9486" "making them quit properly" >}} now too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another battle fought on this front is related to homebrew apps. byte[] is responsible for {{< gh-hovercard "9486" "making them quit properly" >}} now too.
```

> [ChrisOboe](https://github.com/ChrisOboe) suddenly shows up with a glorious quality of life fix for the terminal-based yuzu-cmd build.
> Marking the build as a “Windows” application instead of a “Console” one {{< gh-hovercard "9485" "ensures that no empty command line window pops up" >}} needlessly.
> This can help streaming programs set up to run specific games with yuzu-cmd, as there is no sudden empty black box bothering at the front now.
> Thanks!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ChrisOboe](https://github.com/ChrisOboe) suddenly shows up with a glorious quality of life fix for the terminal-based yuzu-cmd build.
Marking the build as a “Windows” application instead of a “Console” one {{< gh-hovercard "9485" "ensures that no empty command line window pops up" >}} needlessly.
This can help streaming programs set up to run specific games with yuzu-cmd, as this prevents the sudden empty black box from appearing in front of other windows.

```

> On our single audio change of this month, [Maide](https://github.com/Kelebek1) properly signals a buffer event on audio stops, fixing an early softlock that affected the Pokémon Brilliant Diamond/Shining Pearl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our single audio change of this month, [Maide](https://github.com/Kelebek1) properly signals a buffer event on audio stops, fixing an early softlock that affected the `Pokémon Brilliant Diamond/Shining Pearl` games.
```
There's no link to the PR, can you add it somewhere in this blurb?

## Future projects

> We’re just this early into 2023 and I already want to publish the next report, so much happened in so few days!
> 
> Also, Blinkhaw, bunnei, and byte[] are up to something, can’t wait to tell you more.
> And yes, there will be yet more cache invalidations.
> 
> That’s all folks! Expect a few but *very* critical Vulkan improvements next time, hope to see you then!
> 
> ⭐⭐⭐
> Grande Messi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re only a few days into 2023 and we already want to publish the next progress report. So much has happened in such a short time!

Also, Blinkhaw, bunnei, and byte[] are up to something, and we can’t wait to tell you more.
And yes, there will be yet more cache invalidations. All in the name of progress.

That’s all folks! Expect a few but *very* critical Vulkan improvements next time, hope to see you then!

⭐⭐⭐
Grande Messi
```

So, with no alternative on hand, german77 had to implement a {{< gh-hovercard "9404" "custom filter" >}} to solve the issue.

And lastly, as a very important quality of life change, german77 made the {{< gh-hovercard "9495" "input device list refresh automatically," >}} ensuring that yuzu detects controllers without the need for manual intervention. 
Goodbye tiny refresh button!

To close the section, [MonsterDruide1](https://github.com/MonsterDruide1) {{< gh-hovercard "9489" "increased the accuracy of analog sticks" >}} for TAS by hardcoding the range and deadzones of the user input.

## Kernel, building, and core changes

With an update for Dynarmic and SDL2, byte[] enabled {{< gh-hovercard "9374" "support for ARM64" >}} compilation.
This means all Switch titles can be tested on Linux ARM64 devices with compatible Vulkan drivers.

As part of this effort, we started implementing Flatpak support for ARM64 Linux devices. This {{< gh-hovercard "9419" "required making OpenGL optional" >}} for the build process, as Flatpak’s Qt build only supports OpenGL ES, not the full fledged OpenGL 4.6 compatibility profile we require.

> Part of these changes fixed compilation for macOS, but the situation remains the same, without MoltenVK support, nothing will be rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Part of these changes fixed compilation for macOS, but the situation remains the same, without `MoltenVK` support, nothing will be rendered.
```
